We started our project with invtuitive notions on what syntactical differences may arise between 
protest and non-protest songs. We had a perception that protest music tends to be darker in nature, since
the songs typically depict ill feelings towards something going on in the world. 
We thought two major phenomena would appear as a result of this: 
One, we thought the dark nature of protest music would be represented in the lyrics 
by frequent usage of negation, as the artist depicts all that is wrong and lacking in the current state. 
Two, we thought protest songs would use very dramatic methods to depict these unsettling situations that the artists are in. 
We believed that this would be reflected in frequent uses of adjectives to describe the nouns and adverbs to 
describe the verbs. 
Thus, we wanted to compare the frequency of adjectives in noun phrases and the frequency of adverbs in verb phrases
between protest lyrics and non-protest lyrics. We used XQuery to pull this data our from our XML files, providing us 
percentages of verb phrases that include an adverb, noun phrases that include an adjective, 
verb phrases that are negated, and noun phrases that are negated. We used XSLT to create an SVG that provides a visual 
representation of the percentages that were pulled in XQuery. 
We created an SVG that reported the total percentages of all the phrases that exhibited these characteristics in 
the protest songs, and we created another SVG that reported the total percentages of all the phrases that exhibited 
these characteristics in the non-protest songs. 
After this, we wanted to create 60 SVGs, one for each song, that reported the percentages of phrases with 
these traits in that song alone. Because of the large number of desired SVGs, we created a Java program 
that could automatically parce the XQuery output and, by using XSLT, create the 60 SVGs. This made the 
process exponentially more efficient. 
In order to see the individual SVGs for each song, click on the data page. This page provides a way 
for users to compare the percentages found in a specific protest song and compare them to percentages 
found in a specific non-protest song. 

